Let's try pulling the set
timeout first and we're done.
By the way with the back end, this is
totally it for the polling back end.
So now everything that we're
gonna do from here on out for
the polling part of the course is gonna
be doing a variety of different client
strategies of dealing with this.
Okay, so get new messages, this one here.
Let's write a function that's going
to use set timeout to go ahead and
pull this endpoint.
So first thing to notice here,
this is an a sync function if you're
not familiar with a sync await,
there's lots of good JavaScript courses.
Yeah, re rethinking a sync, yep,
good course devilish ticket.
But if you're already familiar with
it cool, let's move on with that but
basically allows us to use
the await keyword here and
we'll kind of talk through
that when we do it.
So first thing here's we're gonna say
let Jason and then we're gonna do a try.
And we're gonna say const.rez
equals await, fetch/poll.
And that's what this a sync
does allows us to say, hey,
we're gonna just pause our entire function
execution here until this completes.
Fetch poll here just returns a promise and
all wait does it say wait for
the promise to finish, that's it.
We're putting in a try catch
because that's how you
handle errors with a sync await.
And here you're gonna say
Jason equals await less.Jason,
which will take this and
jason will end up being a object of
what came back from the API,
we'll put our catch here.
And we'll just say,
here you drag your back off code,
if you were gonna do that, well we
are gonna do that here in a little bit,
console.error polling error e.
Okay, so
when you're doing a sync await code,
you typically are gonna wanna
wrap that in a try catch.
It's just kind of the safe thing
to do you'll get some better
error messaging that way.
Okay here I'm gonna say
All Chat = json.msg.
I'm gonna call render to
reflect those to the DOM and
then I'm gonna say set timeout
get new messages at interval.
I can make this smaller so
you can actually see what's going on here.
Okay, and this, yeah, and
again notice that for
the first time getting the messages
is called just directly down here.
So to kinda kick it off,
and then what's gonna
happen here is now get messages is just
going to call itself at the end, right?
So it continually does this, but what's
better than this about then set interval.
Set interval would run that this function
every three seconds, no matter what.
Come hell or high water, it's gonna pause
execution, and it's gonna run that.
What's nice about this is it's
gonna do all of this first and
then the last thing that it
does is called set timeout.
So if this part takes 20 minutes, it's
gonna do first of all it would timeout,
but let's pretend for a second that
it did take 20 minutes, right?
It would wait the 20 minutes here
before we call this set timeout.
So it would take 20 minutes in 3
seconds before it would call again.
Okay, so in theory we should be able
to come back over to our page here,
refresh it, and you can see here now it's
actually is populating, I don't know why.
I'm going to look at Brian's done for
the rest of course.
[LAUGH] But there you go, you can see
it's actually pulling this down from
the server and
if we look down here in our network tab.
Make sure that it's just
we'll look at just XHR,
you can see here this is getting
called every three seconds.
This is like the most simple real time
thing that you can do is just call
it a lot, right.
Call it every three seconds and see what
what's coming back with because we have no
other clients connected to our chat.
Obviously nothing is coming back but
we would be able to see that here.
He would update automatically,
so let's go do the post new
message part of this, so
we're here under the post new message.
Again, this is just a normal HTTP POST,
there's nothing special here,
I promise I'm only making
read this once today.
So we're going to say const
data equals user and text,
if you're not familiar with this feature,
notice we have something called user and
something called text.
We're gonna call this user user and
text text, right, but
with JavaScript new feature, you can just
call it user and text and that is implied.
So now we have a object called data
that we can send back to the API,
here we're gonna say const,
options =, It's a POST.
The body is JSON.stringify data, and
the headers will let it know that
it's aptly application type JSON,
so Content- Type: application/json.
This is probably stuff you've all written
a million times I have and then down here,
we're gonna say constra
equals await fetch sorry,
not a weight fetch/ poll options and
then const JSON equals
await rez.Jason like that,
so you'll get this object back.
I don't know if you were sending anything
back with your response mind just as
status okay here which in reality,
we don't really need that much, right?
We don't really care what response
comes back as long as it succeeds.
So if you wanted to, you could actually
just get rid of this line altogether.
And then we could actually get rid of this
Raz right there and just saved fetch.
You could probably even get rid of
the await technically if you wanted to.
Actually, you could even say return that
actually be the most correct thing to do.
Anyway, it does not matter what you do,
right as long as you call fetch here,
it doesn't matter, we're gonna we're
just gonna leave it at a wait.
Okay, so come back over here again, make
sure you're refreshing the page, yeah.
>> What about handling long requests?
Like if the server takes time to respond?
>> Sure, good question,
so the question is,
what happens if the server takes
a really long time to respond?
The nice thing is that's kind of like
a built in assumption of our code here.
In particular with a set
timeout that it won't,
queue itself to run until this
previous request has finished right.
So at most we will only ever
have one of these running,
because the only way that this runs again
is if it calls itself right down here.
So if it takes a long time to respond,
that's fine, it's gonna be just fine.
Now, the problem that we do have here
with Des code is if there is an error,
then we have another problem, right?
Actually, you know what, that's not
even true, cuz I don't return here.
So even if there's an error, you'll get a
bunch of stuff in your console yelling at
you that this is impossible.
But it'll actually we'll schedule itself
again because we do our try catch here.
So it'll work, I think is the answer
to that person's question is yeah,
it should work just fine.
Okay, so let's go test our post here,
so if I say Brian here and
I click Submit,
actually I have to refresh the page.
So make sure every time that
you change the front end,
make sure you got to refresh the page.
So I should be able to hit Submit here and
you'll see here, it does pop up here.
Pretty cool, right?
And you can change the name here
to be Mark and you can say,
I also think Bryan has done And
you can see that also shows up there.
So what's awesome here as well,
let's say I opened another window here.
So if I come over here and
I say, I don't know.
I should also says.
Something like that, right?
So that'll show up here but now if I go
back to my other one notice that it's
actually showing up here as well.
So it actually be broadcasting out to
every single one of the endpoints,
to the all the other
clients that are listening.
And this is the most Basic low level
simplest implementation of real
time that you could get to, right?
We wrote an endpoint, we call it a lot and
now all of our various different
clients are listening, right?
But they're actually its a this
technically isn't push, right,
so it's not the server
pushing data to the client,
it's actually the server just
asking a whole lot, right?
It's just saying, hey,
do you have new data yet and
it's just gonna keep asking
that until that's true.
>> So it'd be better if we called get
new message every time whenever posts,
new messages, call it but
then we don't have to keep sending
the request, but how could we do that?
>> Sure, I think the question being asked
is basically, I'm sending a post message
and then I'm just waiting for
that message to come back to me, right?
So if you go look at the code here,
when you call post new message,
it just fires us off into the void.
And then we have the assumption here, that
later that message is gonna come back in
the next round of get new messages, right?
Which is a terrible user experience,
right?
Imagine that someone's on like, 2g out
in the middle of the, middle of nowhere.
That round trip can be quite long, so this
works for our very simple implementation,
but if this was your production code,
it wouldn't be great,
the way that I would handle that
is basically what I would do.
Is I would have every message
have an ID probably generated,
I don't know either from the client or
from the server.
I would then attach that ID to the message
and then I would actually just add that
message to my all chat here and
call re render immediately.
Instead of post new messages and
then it would immediately show the user
their message that they just posted.
And then when the next round of
messages came back from the server,
I would deduplicate
make sure that whatever
messages that I've posted since
then don't show up twice, right?
That would be a really
good way of doing it.
Yeah, there's some intelligence
that you could add here.
Like a good thing that we could do,
instead of just getting all the messages
all the time, we could basically
say give me all new messages since
the last one that you sent me.
Right, and then we can actually just get
a delta of like, instead of getting all 50
messages every single time, we could
get only the last five messages and
then we could kind of shrink
that packet size as well.
So there's a bunch of strategies here and
the cool thing is like I'm just showing
you like the transport layer of
talking between the clients.
You can actually go back later and
re-implement some of these more advanced
strategies of making this
a better user experience.
Hopefully answer that person's question
which is basically show them something
now and then D duplicate later.
So what you see now is what is inside the,
no pause section here.
So if you got behind or if you just wanna
start from the same place that we're all
starting from or something like that, feel
free to just hop on to no pause, right?
It's all basically the same code.